---
title: Werebot
---

**Werebot** is an IRC bot that guides an controls *Werewolves* games.

- - -

The Game
--------

**Werebot** is an IRC game based on *The werewolves of Miller's Hollow*, a popular card game.
Players take the role of the villagers of a town, among which there are some that are werewolves.
For the regular villagers, the objective is to find and kill all werewolves; for the werewolves, to
kill all villagers without being discovered.

The game is divided in different phases in which the different characters can perform their
actions.


### Preparation

The *preparation* phase is the first phase of the game.  When this phase starts, each player of the
game is assigned a *role*.  The *role* determines the *side* each player belongs to initially and
which action can perform.

After the assignment of roles, a few characters must perform some actions:

  + The **thief** might select one of the remaining, unassigned roles.
  + **Cupid** must select two people to fall in love with each other.


### The Night

The game starts with the night.  During the night, everybody sleeps and nobody is allowed to talk.
Most special roles have something to do during the night:

  + The **werewolves** must select a player to kill.
  + The **seer** can select a player to see their true identity.
  + The **kid** can *peek* to see what's happening in the town.
  + The **witch** can use their potions to kill or revive someone.

After every player has performed their corresponding action, any deaths that took place during the
night is announced.  Then, unless there's a winner, the day starts.


### The Day

During the day, people start talking and discussiong who might be a werewolf.  After some time, the
game starts accepting lynch votes.  Whoever gets more votes is lynched by the town.  If the vote
ends in a tie, nobody will die.

During the day, all players should act as if they were regular villagers, but you might disclose
your role or try to impersonate another one's role if that suits your own agenda!


The Characters
--------------

All players in the game get a role assigned at the start.  You and only you know what role you
have, and you must play accordingly.

Remember that the rules of the game *explicitly allow* disclosing your role or lying to convince
players you are someone else.


### The Villagers

The villagers are regular people, deeply afraid of the werewolves, and nothing more.  Villagers
don't have any kind of special abilities.


### The Werewolves

Werewolves act like regular villagers during the day, but at night will transform into wolves and
attack one of the villagers.  There are multiple werewolves in most games, and they must reach an
agreement on who should be killed avery night.


### The Seer

Every night, the Seer can reveal the true identity of any villager in town.  By doing so, the Seer
will be informed of the role of the selected player, allowing to plan their action more carefully.


### The Kid

Every night, the Kid can peek outside to see what's happening in town.  By doing so, the Kid risks
being discovered by the wolves, and to the Kid will only be able to peek for a few seconds each
night.


### The Witch

The witch has two potions prepared at the start of the game: A *life potion* and a *death potion*.
Every night, the Witch can use any of these potions.  By using the *life potions*, the last victim
of the werewolves will be resurrected; by using the death potion, an unsuspecting player will die.


### The Hunter

The Hunter always carries a gun, and will be able to kill someone in revenge right before dying.


### Cupid

Cupid will, at the start of the game, make two people fall in love.  The two selected players will
become [lovers](#the-lovers), and if any one on them dies, the other will commit suicide
immediately.


### The Thief

The Thief can, at the start of the game, select one of the two roles that remain unassigned.  If
the two unassigned roles are werewolves, the Thief is *forced* to choose one.  The thief itself
doesn't have any special powers during the rest of the game, so it's recommended to always select
one of the offered roles.

<!--
### The Protector

The Protecter is able to protect one person every night from the attack of the werewolves,
*including themselves*.  There's a restriction, however: The same player can't be protected two
consecutive nights.  The protection will only work with the werewolves coordinated attack, and not
with the witch's potion, a white wolf, a fierce wolf, or any other means of killing.


### The Elder

The Elder is a long-time survivor of the werewolves, and will resist *one* coordinated werewolf
attack.  Note however that any other means, such as a Fierce Wolf attack, a potion, etc. will kill
the Elder normally.

In addition, if the Elder is lynched by the town, all players lose their special abilities, with
the exception of abilities necessary to win, such as the Flutist's enchantment or the White Wolf
attack.


### The Good Person

The Good Person is a regular villager, but everyone knows that the Good Person is a villager,
because it's so obvious that you can't miss it.


### The Rusty Knight

The Rusty Knight is a former warrior of the town.  At any point during the day and once per game,
the Rusty Knight can kill a player instantly.  If whoever the Rusty Knight killed was *not* a
werewolf,  the Rusty Knight will commit suicide and die.


### The Flutist

### The Fierce Wolf

### The Infectious Wolf

### The White Wolf


-->

The Sides
---------

The different players of the game belong to different sides on the game.  The game ends as soon as
a side wins, or when no players are left alive in the game.  Dead players, unless stated otherwise,
win if any of their sides won.


### The Town

The Town side is composed of all roles that are not werewolves unless specified otherwise.  Their
objective is to kill every werewolf in town.


### The Werewolves

The Werewolves side is composed of all werewolves except for the White Wolf.  Their objective is to
kill every non-werewolf in town.


### The Lovers

The Lovers are designated by Cupid at the start of the game.  They preserve their old sides, whether
they were werewolves or villagers, and may win with the regular rules of their side.  However, in
order to win this way, they *must* be alive at the end of the game.  If the Lovers are in different
sides, their only hope of winning is to remain alive at the end of the game by killing everyone
else.

The lovers can't vote each other for lynching.

<!--
### The Flutist

### The White Wolf

-->